# Data Analytics Portfolio - Mateusz Miotła
## About me
Ambitious and creative data analyst with technical skills and a good understanding of 
business requirements. Technical skills acquired through work experience, self-education and relevant 
courses allow me to effectively analyze large data sets, while the knowledge and competencies 
soft skills gained through studies enable me to see the bigger picture, understand the needs of the 
user and communicate effectively. In addition, I find myself well in teamwork and can 
work effectively in a collaborative environment.


## My projects

### PowerBI 

### Dashboard for Legal firms

**Preview:** [`PowerBI Legal Dashboard - Activities.pdf`](https://github.com/xRavagerr/Portfolio_Projects/blob/main/PowerBI%20Legal%20Dashboard%20-%20Activities.pdf)

This dashboard is presented only in pdf form, due to data security reasons. The data was taken from oData, generated by LegalDesk software, owned by Wolters Kluwer Poland (https://www.wolterskluwer.com/pl-pl/solutions/legaldesk).

**Description:**
The dashboard presents key metrics for a law firm such as:
Number of cases
Number of activities performed as part of cases
Number of activity owners
Total time of all activities
In addition, the dashboard allows you to monitor the time spent on activities by case, date and contractor, offering a partial drill-down.
The second page presents a detailed list of activities.

Disclaimer: Dashboard does not present real data. Its purpose is to illustrate an example of the use of PowerBI in the legal market.


### Stock portfolio dashboard
**Preview:** [`PowerBI Stock dashboard.pdf`](https://github.com/xRavagerr/Portfolio_Projects/blob/main/PowerBI%20Stock%20dashboard.pdf)

The project is presented via PDF. The interactive version is available for download here: [`PowerBI Stock dashboard.pbix`](https://github.com/xRavagerr/Portfolio_Projects/blob/main/PowerBI%20Stock%20dashboard.pbix)

**Description:** The dashboard is built on data downloaded from Yahoo Finance and the brokerage platform. The presented portfolio is composed of selected Big Data companies and does not constitute an investment recommendation. The goal of the project was to prepare the data and then build a dashboard to track the investment portfolio.

### SQL Projects

### Bikestore Data Exploration
**Code:** [`Bikestore SQL Data Exploration.sql`](https://github.com/xRavagerr/Portfolio_Projects/blob/main/Bikestore%20SQL%20Data%20Exploration.sql)

**Description:** The dataset includes information on bike sales. The project aims at practical application of MS SQL Server basics for exploratory analysis.


### Covid-19 Data Exploration
**Code:** [`Covid-19 SQL Data Exploration.sql`](https://github.com/xRavagerr/Portfolio_Projects/blob/main/Covid-19%20SQL%20Data%20Exploration.sql)

**Description:** The dataset consists of records on the number of Covid-19 cases, the number infected, deaths and the number vaccinated. The project aims to use MS SQL Server for exploratory data analysis.


### Python Projects

### CPI prediction in Poland
**Code:** [`Python CPI Prediction in Poland.ipynb`](https://github.com/xRavagerr/Portfolio_Projects/blob/main/Python%20CPI%20Prediction%20in%20Poland.ipynb)

**Description:** This is the ARIMA model, which is designed to predict the level of CPI inflation in Poland in the next month. The project uses the Pandas library to load a csv file downloaded from the Central Statistical Office (GUS) website. The algorithm that issues predictions is built on an ARIMA model downloaded from the statsmodels library.At the data preparation stage, they were limited to the most relevant columns, conversion of data types, discarding empty values, indexing on a date basis and sorting the data. In the future, I plan to expand the model so that it makes predictions for more months ahead.


